# slack-message

This GitHub Action can be used to send messages to Slack through the GitHub Slack Integration. Messages
posted with this action are delivered to all Slack channels that are subscribed to the repository.

To subscribe Slack channel to a repository, add the `@github` bot and add the subscription
with  `/github subscribe <owner>/<repo>`, for example `/github subscribe extenda/actions`

## Comparing [slack-notify](../slack-notify/README.md) action

The main difference in this action lies in first subscribing to a repository in order for the notification sent from that repo to reach this the slack channel. Whereas the slack-notify action requires you to specify what channel to notify on. Be aware that if the channel is private the app needs to be manually added to the channel.

## Usage

See [action.yml](action.yml).


### Secrets

If this action is used with GCP Secret Manager it requires a GCP service account key with permission to access
secret payloads. Once created, the JSON key should be `base64` encoded and added as secret in the GitHub repository.

It is recommended that the service account _only_ has permissions to access secrets. Do not allow modifications or
access to any other resources in your project.

### Examples

#### Usage With Secret Manager

This example will load a `github-token` named secret from the GCP Secret Manager accessible using
the provided `service-account-key`. The default secret name can be modified with the
`github-token-secret-name` input variable.

```yaml
on: push

jobs:
  notify:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v1

      - name: Notify Slack
        uses: extenda/actions/slack-message@v0
        with:
          title: 'Slack Message Action :robot_face:'
          text: |
            This message is sent by GitHub Actions :rocket:

            It contains *formatting* and multiple lines.
          fallback: This message is sent by GitHub Actions
          service-account-key: ${{ secrets.SECRET_AUTH }}
```

#### Usage With Personal Access Token

This example will use the provided `github-token`. Note that the default `GITHUB_TOKEN` generated by GitHub Actions
is not supported. The token *must* be a Personal Access Token.

```yaml
on: push

jobs:
   notify:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v1

      - name: Notify Slack
        uses: extenda/actions/slack-message@v0
        with:
          text: 'This message is sent by GitHub Actions :rocket:'
          github-token: ${{ secrets.SLACK_GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

#### Send message at release

Posting a Slack message at the end of the release stage of a build can be done by adding the `@github` bot to a Slack
channel and then configuring it so it doesn't post messages for anything else than the Slack Action.

Start by subscribing the bot to a repository from a channel as described above. Configuring the bot can be done with
`github unsubscribe extenda/actions pulls statuses commits releases`.
This will disable the bot from sending messages when there are new pull requests, new commits to the default branch
and published releases.

Then use this Action according to the usage with Secret Manager.
